---
title: "Daily Notes 2025-07-19"
date: 2025-07-19
published: True
---

Catching up on tabs, reading [Steve Havov on better A/B testing](https://stevehanov.ca/blog/index.php?id=132). I'll keep this around for later. It would be interesting to try to build out a framework for this, where a site could self-modify if it sensed one option was better than another. He's talking about changing a button based on feedback, what if you could change workflows, or even a whole site, but dynamically adjusting to feedback? Maybe report in at some threshold and create an issue directing your coding agent (`@claude` or whatever) to use the information from the statistics that you've gathered to redesign the site. I have a site that briefly was self-modifying based on user feature requests before I shut it down over cost concerns. 

Thinking about an old post by Sam Ruby that I can't locate now, I remember him saying something about phones used to be super reliable, but cell phones now drop calls and are much less reliable, but we accept that tradeoff. I've been rereading _The Black Swan_ it occurred to me that this trend continued, we're much more tolerant of failures and we now routinely architect things to accept that failure is a normal operational mode. Chapter 15 starts "Forget everything you heard in college statistics or probability theory. If you never took such a class, even better." I've been regretting my lack of a solid prob/stat background but maybe Chapter 15 will give me redemption?

[Deep Learning is Applied Topology](https://theahura.substack.com/p/deep-learning-is-applied-topology) talks about separating data in a plane by moving to a higher-dimensional space. About a year ago, I was drawing a lot of inspiration from this post [analyzing HN with embeddings](https://blog.wilsonl.in/hackerverse/), then using UMAP to reduce the dimensions to make visualization easier, the opposite process.

Pretty awesome [video on how to use LLM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UZ-9U1W0e4o), Simon Willison's tool for interfacing with LLMs. I especially liked how he dived into using OpenRouter and the `--template` option.